Sometimes, I think all of us would agree
that it’s easy to see Jehovah’s hand
when things are going well
—when we get a court victory,
when someone’s health improves,
or maybe when someone really asked
to come to study the Bible with us
and they’re at our meetings.
But it’s harder to see Jehovah’s hand
when we see bad things happen
either to us or to our brothers and sisters.
So we may wonder,
‘How can we see Jehovah’s hand
when bad things are happening?’
Well, you can see my hand right now, right?
But if I put it away, you can’t see it.
Now, do you assume
that because you can’t see my hand
that I don’t have a hand anymore?
Well, no.
You reason on the fact
that since you see the rest of me,
and there’s probably still my hand attached.
So likewise, there are times
when it’s easy to see Jehovah’s hand,
and there are other times
when we have to reason
on what we know about Jehovah
in order to see his hand in action.
So let’s consider one thing.
What do we know about Jehovah
so that we could reason
that his hand is in action?
Well, let’s reason on the point
that he is a “happy God.”
Now, how does Jehovah stay happy,
seeing all the bad things that are happening?
Maybe you’ve wondered that.
I know it’s crossed my mind.
How does Jehovah stay happy
when he sees
all the suffering that’s going on?
And frankly, he sees all  the suffering;
he sees everything going on.
I know how I feel,
and you probably know how you feel
just when you read about what’s happening
to our brothers in Venezuela or in Russia
or with all of the hurricanes
and earthquakes
that we’ve had in recent times.
And we see the suffering
not only of our brothers and sisters
but also of other people,
and we consider,
‘How can Jehovah stay happy
when he knows all of what is happening?’
Well, let’s consider three
(I’m sure) of many reasons
why Jehovah can stay happy
even though he knows all the suffering.
And then we can see
how that could benefit us as well.
First of all,
his hand is hard at work
preparing the new world for us.
And I think Jeremiah 29:11
really covers how Jehovah feels
about the future for us.
At Jeremiah 29:11, he says:
“‘For I well know the thoughts
that I am thinking toward you,’
“declares Jehovah,
‘thoughts of peace, and not of calamity,
to give you a future and a hope.’”
So Jehovah
is not simply just watching events occur.
He’s actively working on the solution.
He, along with Jesus and the heavenly angels,
is working hard on the Kingdom.
Now, we can’t see into heaven right now,
but I want you to just imagine
all the activity of the angels,
the resurrected anointed brothers,
and Jesus working hard on making preparations
for Armageddon and the new world.
Just think of all the work
we’re doing just to prepare
for the annual meeting and dedication.
Can you imagine all the work
going on in heaven that is there?
I mean, how far along are the new scrolls?
How are our basic needs
as far as clean water,
food, and homes
going to be provided for the survivors?
So while we can’t see into heaven,
we know that his hand is there.
So Jehovah is happy
because he’s actively working right now
to make things better for us.
What is the lesson for us?
We can be happy
when we see the suffering around us
because we know what Jehovah
and our brothers are doing up there
to prepare for the new world.
A second point about how Jehovah can be happy
is that he can comfort us right now.
He is happy when he can do that.
In verse 12 of Jeremiah chapter 29,
Jehovah continued after saying
that he was working on the future (he says):
“And you will call me
and come and pray to me,
and I will listen to you.”
So I love this point
because Jehovah is saying,
‘Don’t worry; I’m taking care
of building a better future for you.’
And we appreciate it.
If we’re going through some trial
—some difficulty—
and a good friend of ours reminds us,
“Remember things are going
to get better in the future;
Jehovah is going to change this;
it’s going to get better,”
it is comforting.
But it is also comforting
(like Jehovah says here in verse 12)
when the person says,
“What can I do for you right now?”
And Jehovah is saying right now,
‘Come, pray to me.’
Jehovah is there to comfort and help us.
We could kind of illustrate
the way Jehovah feels
by thinking about parents
and how they deal with a small child.
Have you ever seen a small child,
maybe two or three years of age,
and they fall really badly
and scrape their knees badly,
and they are screaming in pain?
There’s this red liquid leaking out of them.
They are distraught.
In fact, in that child’s mind,
he may think: ‘This is the end of it.
This is the end of my life as I know it.
‘I’m never going to recover from this.
I’m going to die.’
But for the parents, of course,
their perspective is different, isn’t it?
But they comfort the child;
they help to take care of the skinned knee.
They comfort them, and they tell them:
“You’re going to live.
It’s going to be OK.
It’s going to be all right.”
And why can the parent have that view?
Because they know that in a few hours maybe
(at least in a week or so),
the child is not even going to remember
that skinned knee.
It’s going to be just a very distant memory.
Well, Jehovah also knows
that whatever we’re going through right now
—whatever suffering
we may be going through now—
that soon in that new world,
we aren’t going to recall that suffering.
And he knows that he can solve
any problem we’re facing
as easily as we heal from a scraped knee.
He knows our whole eternal lives
are ahead of us.
So he comforts us;
he listens to our heartfelt prayers.
And like a kind parent, he’s telling us
(through our brothers,
the Bible, and holy spirit),
‘You will live.’
Jehovah is happy
because right now, what can he do?
He can comfort us and help us.
Well, what is the lesson for us?
We can comfort and help others.
We’re, really, kind of all
in this “lifeboat” together,
trying to make it to the “new-world shore,”
and we can help one another.
Third,
his hand is patiently waiting
for the right time to act.
Jehovah is waiting patiently
for the complete vindication
of his sovereignty.
I really love
what the June 2017 Watchtower  article
“Keep Your Eyes on the Big Issue” said:
“Let us not become
so absorbed in our own lives
“that we lose sight of this big issue
“—the vindication of Jehovah’s sovereignty.
“And let us appreciate
that our role in this vital issue
“entails remaining faithful
even under difficult circumstances.”
Isn’t that a beautiful quote to think about?
Jehovah knows that by his being patient now,
he and all his faithful servants
will never have to go through this again.
The issue of sovereignty
will be completely settled.
Don’t you admire Jehovah’s patience?
I mean, to watch all that is happening
and to have the self-control
to wait for the appointed time
is truly an example of patience in action.
When we think about the different situations
our brothers and sisters and others face
—when a mother, for example,
watches a handicapped son
struggle to walk or to talk
or a husband watches his wife
struggle to breathe—
we want so much at that moment
to press that big, red,
“start-the-new-world” button now.
But when you have that feeling,
remember our text for today:
“The hand of Jehovah
will become known to his servants.”
What is the lesson for us?
We need to be patient
and keep our eyes
on the big issue of Jehovah’s sovereignty.
So let’s just review those three points.
How can we see Jehovah’s hand
and be happy when we see
all of this suffering around us?
Well, we can be happy knowing
what Jehovah and Jesus
and the resurrected anointed
are doing right now
to prepare for the new world.
And we can be happy
because we have a role
in comforting and helping others.
And we can be happy being patient,
knowing why we’re being patient.
We have our eyes
on that big issue of Jehovah’s sovereignty.
We may not always
be able to see Jehovah’s hand,
but we can be sure,
as our text for today says,
that Jehovah’s hand is there,
and it will become known.